Streams (#157)
SteeltoeOSS/Documentation: api/v3/stream/rabbit-binder.md

# Spring Cloud Stream RabbitMQ Binder Reference Guide

> This guide describes the RabbitMQ implementation of the Steeltoe Stream Binder.
> It contains information about its design, usage and configuration options, as well as information on how the Streams concepts map into RabbitMQ specific constructs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes the RabbitMQ implementation of the Steeltoe Stream Binder, along with usage and configuration options, as well as information on how the Streams concepts map into RabbitMQ-specific constructs.
```

## Usage

> To use the RabbitMQ binder, you can add it to your Streams application, by using the following in your `.csproj`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the RabbitMQ binder, add it to your Streams application with a PackageReference in your `.csproj` as seen in this example:
```

```xml

> <PackageReference Include="Steeltoe.Stream.Binder.RabbitMQ" Version="3.1.0" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<PackageReference Include="Steeltoe.Stream.Binder.RabbitMQ" Version="3.1.0-rc1" />
```
We should plan to do bulk updates after we ship the GA but use a working version number now

```

## RabbitMQ Binder Overview

The following simplified diagram shows how the RabbitMQ binder operates:

![RabbitMQ Binder](./images/rabbit-binder.png)

By default, the RabbitMQ Binder implementation maps each destination to a `TopicExchange`.
For each consumer group, a `Queue` is bound to that `TopicExchange`.
Each consumer instance has a corresponding RabbitMQ `Consumer` instance for its group's `Queue`.
For partitioned producers and consumers, the queues are suffixed with the partition index and use the partition index as the routing key.

> For anonymous consumers (i.e. those with no `group` property), an auto-delete queue (with a randomized unique name) is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For anonymous consumers (those with no `group` property), an auto-delete queue (with a randomized unique name) is used.
```

By using the optional `autoBindDlq` option, you can configure the binder to create and configure dead-letter queues (DLQs) (and a dead-letter exchange `DLX`, as well as routing infrastructure).
By default, the dead letter queue has the name of the destination, appended with `.dlq`.
If retry is enabled (i.e. `maxAttempts > 1`), failed messages are delivered to the DLQ after retries are exhausted.
If retry is disabled (i.e. `maxAttempts = 1`), you should set `requeueRejected` to `False`, the default, so that failed messages are routed to the DLQ, instead of being re-queued.
In addition, `republishToDlq` causes the binder to publish a failed message to the DLQ (instead of rejecting it).
This feature lets additional information, such as the stack trace in the `x-exception-stacktrace` header, be added to the message in headers.
See the `frameMaxHeadroom` setting below for information about truncated stack traces.
This option does not require retry to be enabled.
You can republish a failed message after just one attempt and you can configure the delivery mode of republished messages.
See the `republishDeliveryMode` setting below.

> If a stream listener throws an `ImmediateAcknowledgeAmqpException`, the DLQ is bypassed and the message simply discarded. This is True regardless of the setting of `republishToDlq`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a stream listener throws an `ImmediateAcknowledgeAmqpException`, the DLQ is bypassed and the message simply discarded. This is true regardless of the setting of `republishToDlq`.
```

The `RabbitMessageChannelBinder` sets the `RabbitTemplate.userPublisherConnection` property to `True` so that the non-transactional producers avoid deadlocks on consumers, which can happen if cached connections are blocked because of a [memory alarm](https://www.rabbitmq.com/memory.html) on the broker.

<!-- // TODO: verify multiplex consumers work -->
>**NOTE:** Currently, a `multiplex` consumer (a single consumer listening to multiple queues) is only supported for message-driven consumers; polled consumers can only retrieve messages from a single queue.

## Configuration Settings

This section contains settings specific to the RabbitMQ Binder and associated channels.

For general binding configuration options and properties, see the [Steeltoe Stream Reference Documentation](./stream-reference.md).

### RabbitMQ Binder Settings

By default, the RabbitMQ binder uses the Steeltoe RabbitMQ `ConnectionFactory`.
Consequently, it supports all of the associated configuration settings for RabbitMQ.
For reference, see the [Steeltoe RabbitMQ Documentation](./stream-reference.md).
RabbitMQ configuration settings use the `spring:rabbitmq` prefix.

> In addition to the RabbitMQ settings, the RabbitMQ binder supports the following configuration values.  All settings should be prefixed with `spring:cloud:stream:rabbitmq:binder`.

Reviewer: Not immediately needed, but we should think about providing a table of the settings (in addition?) for a concise view of the options

Reviewer: We should also PascalCase the settings to match the Json schema (that doesn't yet but will eventually include this feature)

Author: Added this to address later: https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Documentation/issues/161

**adminAddresses**
A comma-separated list of RabbitMQ management plugin URLs.
Only used when `nodes` contains more than one entry.
Each entry in this list must have a corresponding entry in `spring:rabbitmq:addresses`.
Only needed if you use a RabbitMQ cluster and wish to consume from the node that hosts the queue.
See [Queue Affinity and the LocalizedQueueConnectionFactory](https://docs.spring.io/spring-amqp/reference/html/_reference.html#queue-affinity) for more information.  //TODO: Proper link

>   Default: empty.

Reviewer: The whitespace on these seems to imply an expectation of separate formatting, but I don't see anything happening... Should they be blockquotes or anything special?

Author: the original was indented in adoc - with our markdown - we are somewhat limited in options. Block quote looks odd since that is what we use for note. I'll add back ticks to change the format at least.

Only needed if you use a RabbitMQ cluster and wish to consume from the node that hosts the queue.
See [Queue Affinity and the LocalizedQueueConnectionFactory](https://docs.spring.io/spring-amqp/reference/html/#queue-affinity) for more information.

  Default: empty.

**compressionLevel**
The compression level for compressed bindings.
See `System.IO.Compression.CompressionLevel`.

  Default: `1` (CompressionLevel.Fastest).

**connectionNamePrefix**
A connection name prefix used to name the connection(s) created by this binder.
The name is this prefix followed by `#n`, where `n` increments each time a new connection is opened.

  Default: none 

### RabbitMQ Consumer Settings

The following properties are available for Rabbit consumers only and must be prefixed with `spring:cloud:stream:rabbitmq:bindings:<channelName>:consumer.`.

>**NOTE:** To avoid repetition, Stream supports setting values for all channels, in the format of `spring:cloud:stream:default:<setting>=<value>`.

**acknowledgeMode**
The acknowledge mode.

  Default: `AUTO`.

**anonymousGroupPrefix**
When the binding has no `group` setting, an anonymous, auto-delete queue is bound to the destination exchange.

> The default naming stragegy for such queues results in a queue named `anonymous.<base64 representation of a UUID>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default naming strategy for such queues results in a queue named `anonymous.<base64 representation of a UUID>`.
```

  Default: "".

**queueDeclarationRetries**
The number of times to retry consuming from a queue if it is missing.
Relevant only when `missingQueuesFatal` is `True`.
Otherwise, the container keeps retrying indefinitely.
Not supported when the `containerType` is `direct`.

  Default: `3`

**queueNameGroupOnly**
When True, consume from a queue with a name equal to the `group`.
Otherwise the queue name is `destination.group`.
This is useful, for example, when using Spring Cloud Stream to consume from an existing RabbitMQ queue.

  Default: `False`.

**recoveryInterval**
The interval between connection recovery attempts, in milliseconds.

  Default: `5000`.

**requeueRejected**
Whether delivery failures should be re-queued when retry is disabled or `republishToDlq` is `False`.

  Default: `False`.

**republishDeliveryMode**
When `republishToDlq` is `True`, specifies the delivery mode of the republished message.

  Default: `MessageDeliveryMode.PERSISTENT`

**republishToDlq**
By default, messages that fail after retries are exhausted are rejected.
If a dead-letter queue (DLQ) is configured, RabbitMQ routes the failed message (unchanged) to the DLQ.

> If set to `True`, the binder republishs failed messages to the DLQ with additional headers, including the exception message and stack trace from the cause of the final failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If set to `True`, the binder republishes failed messages to the DLQ with additional headers, including the exception message and stack trace from the cause of the final failure.
```
